Add commit message convention ADR (#35)
MinBZK/ai-validation: docs/ADRs/0007-commit-convention.md

---
    title: 0007 Commit convention
    adr:
        author: Berry den Hartog
        created: 28-Feb-2024
        status:  accepted
---

## Context

In software development, maintaining clear and consistent commit message conventions is crucial for effective
collaboration, code review, and project management. Commit messages serve as a form of documentation, helping developers
understand the changes introduced by each commit without having to analyze the code diff extensively.

## Decision

A commit message must follow the following rules:

1. The subject line (first line) MUST not be no longer than 50 characters
2. The subject line MUST be in the imperative mood
3. A sentences MUST have Capitalized first word

> 4. The subject line MUST  not end with a punctuation

Reviewer: there is a double space here

Author: fixed

> 5. The body SHOULD be restricted to 72 characters

Reviewer 2: line length, you mean?

Author: fixed

6. The body MUST be separate by a blank line from the subject line if used
7. The body SHOULD be used to explain what and why, not how.
8. The body COULD end with a ticket number
9. The Subject line COULD include a ticket number in the following format

  > \<ref\>-\<ticketnumber\>: subject line

> 

Reviewer: could you add an example of a valid commit message?

Author: done

If we contribute to projects not started by us we try to follow the above standard unless a specific convention is
obvious or required by the project.

## Consequences

> In some repositories [Conventional Commits are used](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/). This does not

Reviewer: I don't understand this line.

Author: I dont find it a nice convention because you have to start with a commit type like fix or feature. This is done because conventional commit allows you to do automated versioning of your software

Reviewer: Fine by me. I don't think we want/need automated versioning.

> follow conventianal commits.

Reviewer: typo in conventional

> follow conventianal commits.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
follow conventional commits.
```

Author: fixed

        created: 28-Feb-2024
        status:  accepted
---

## Context

In software development, maintaining clear and consistent commit message conventions is crucial for effective
collaboration, code review, and project management. Commit messages serve as a form of documentation, helping developers
understand the changes introduced by each commit without having to analyze the code diff extensively.

## Decision

A commit message must follow the following rules:

1. The subject line (first line) MUST not be no longer than 50 characters
2. The subject line MUST be in the imperative mood
3. A sentences MUST have Capitalized first word
4. The subject line MUST not end with a punctuation
5. The body line length SHOULD be restricted to 72 characters
6. The body MUST be separate by a blank line from the subject line if used
7. The body SHOULD be used to explain what and why, not how.
8. The body COULD end with a ticket number
9. The Subject line COULD include a ticket number in the following format

  > \<ref\>-\<ticketnumber\>: subject line

An example of a commit message:
  > Fix foo to enable bar

or

  > AB-1234: Fix foo to enable bar

or
 > Fix foo to enable bar
 >

>  > This fixes the broken behavior of the component by doing xyz.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 > This fixes the broken behavior of component abc caused by problem xyz.
```

Just checking, in rule 7 it says 'what and why, not how'. 'By doing xyz' is a how I think.

Author: fixed
